Read this passage carefully, then answer the questions that follow.
The Swiss Family Robinson
by Johann David Wyss
 	
This story is told by a father who has been shipwrecked on an island along with his 
wife and sons, Jack and Fritz, and their pet dogs. They have spent the winter safely 
in Falconhurst which is the home that they built. The weather has recently improved, 
and it is time to find out what effect the winter storms have had on their tree house 
 	
and tents.
1. 	 The winds at length were lulled, the sun shot his brilliant rays through the clouds, the rain 
ceased to fall – spring had come. No prisoners set free could have felt more joy than we 
did as we stepped out from our winter home. We refreshed our eyes with the pleasant 
greenery around us, and our ears with the merry songs of a thousand happy birds, and 
5. 	 drank in the pure air of spring.
	
Our tree house was our first care: filled with leaves and broken and torn by the wind, it 
looked indeed dilapidated. We worked hard, and in a few days it was again habitable. 
I was anxious to visit the tent, for I feared that much of our precious stores might have 
suffered. The damage done to Falconhurst was nothing compared to the scene that 
10. 	awaited us. The tent was blown to the ground, the canvas torn to rags, and the provisions 
soaked. We immediately spread the things that we hoped to preserve in the sun to dry.
	
The irreparable damage we had suffered made me resolve to find some safer and more 
stable winter-quarters before the arrival of the next rainy season. Fritz proposed that we 
should hollow out a cave in the rock. The difficulties such a task would present appeared 
15. 	almost insurmountable, yet I was determined to make the attempt. We might not, I 
thought, cut out a cavern of sufficient size to serve as a room, but we might at least make 
a cellar for the more valuable and perishable of our stores.
	
Some days afterwards we left Falconhurst with the cart laden with a cargo of spades, 
hammers, chisels, pickaxes and crowbars, and began the work. On the smooth face of the 
20. 	rock I drew out in chalk the size of the proposed entrance, and then, with minds bent on 
success, we battered away.
	
Six days of hard and incessant toil made little impression; I do not think that the hole 
would have been a satisfactory shelter for even our smallest dog. But we still did not 
despair, and were soon rewarded by coming to a softer and more yielding substance; our 
25. 	work progressed, and our minds were relieved.

	
On the tenth day, as our persevering blows were falling heavily, Jack, who was working 
hard with a hammer and crowbar, shouted:
	
‘Gone, father! Fritz, my bar has gone through the mountain! It went right through the 
rock; I heard it crash down inside. Oh, do come and see!’
30. 	We sprang to his side, and I thrust the handle of my hammer into the hole. I could turn it 
in any direction I chose. Fritz handed me a long pole; I tried the depth with that. Nothing 
could I feel. A thin wall, then, was all that stood between us and a great cavern.
	
With a shout of joy, we battered vigorously at the rock; piece by piece fell, and soon the 
hole was large enough for us to enter. Fritz and I enlarged the opening, while Jack, 
35. 	springing on his horse, thundered away to Falconhurst to bear the great and astonishing 
news to his mother.
	
He soon returned, quickly followed by the rest of our party in the cart. All were in the 
highest state of excitement. 
	
Jack had stowed in the cart all the candles he could find, and we now, lighting these, 
40. 	entered. I led the way. Silently we marched – my wife, the boys, and even the dogs 
seeming overawed with the grandeur and beauty of the scene. We were in a cave of 
diamonds – a vast chamber of glittering crystal. The candles reflected on the walls a golden 
light, bright as the stars, while great crystal pillars rose from the floor like mighty trees, 
mingling their branches which sparkled and glittered with all the colours of the rainbow.
45. 	The floor of this magnificent palace was formed of hard, dry sand, so dry that I saw at once 
that we might safely make our home inside it.
 
Please answer these questions. (Look at the passage again if you need to.)
You should choose the best answer and mark its letter on your answer sheet.
At what time of year is the passage set?
A	 winter
B	 spring
C	 rainy season
D	 mid-summer
E	 autumn
1